This lecture will be about pod presets.
Pod presets can inject information into pods at runtime.
Pod presets are used to inject Kubernetes resources
like Secrets, ConfigMaps, Volumes
and Environmental variables.
Imagine you have 20 applications you want to deploy
and they all need to get a specific credential.
You can edit those 20 specifications and add the credential
or you can use presets to create one preset object
which will inject an environment variable
or config file to all the matching pods.
This is just an easier way to get certain information
in multiple pods rather than editing
all the separate pod definitions or deployment definitions.
When injecting environment variables and VolumeMounts,
the pod preset will apply the changes to all containers
within the pod.
So if the pod has more than one container,
the pod presets will be applied to all containers
within that pod.
This is an example of a pod preset.
Here is the api version, currently still alpha.
You might have the change this after the pod presets
become beta or become stable.
In the version that I use in the demo,
it is still alpha but in one of the next versions,
it can become beta or stable.
So then I will update this api version in GitHub.
Variant is a pod preset.
You can give the name and then you have the specification.
You need a selector to match for instance the labels.
So every pod that has the label F equals myapp
will match and whatever is defined below
will then be applied to these pods.
In this case, I have an environment variable,
a volume mount and specified volumes.
This would then be applied and then you have
a variable my secret, a volume mount /share
that is just an empty directory that is
then defined in the volumes.
You can more than one pod preset.
They'll all be applied to matching pods.
If there is a conflict, the pod preset will not
be applied to the pod.
Pod presets can match zero or more pods.
It's possible that no pods are currently matching
but that matching pods will be launched
at a later time.
So they don't necessarily need to match.
They will just be there and whenever a new pod
is launched that matches, then the presets
will be injected in that pod.
In the next example, I will show you how it works.